docs/user_guide/interaction.rst, before:

Interacting with the Bot
========================

After starting Errbot, you should add the bot to your buddy list if you haven't already.
You can now send commands directly to the bot, or issue commands in a chatroom that
the bot has also joined.

.. _builtin_help_function:

Accessing the built-in help function
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To get a list of all available commands, you can issue::

    !help full

If you just wish to know more about a specific command you can issue::

    !help command

Managing plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To get a list of public plugin repos you can issue::

    !repos

To install a plugin from this list, issue::

    !repos install <name of plugin>

You can always uninstall a plugin again with::

    !repos uninstall <plugin>

You will probably want to update your plugins periodically. This can be done with::

    !repos update all

.. note::
    Please pay attention when you install a plugin, it may have additional
    dependencies. If the plugin contains a `requirements.txt` file then Errbot
    will automatically check the requirements listed within and warn you when
    you are missing any.

Commit message:

Update docs with note about AUTOINSTALLL_DEPS
As suggested in #576, the `AUTOINSTALL_DEPS` config variable was well documented in the `config.py` file but not in the proper documentation.
I just copy/pasted the docs found in `config.py` with minor changes.

docs/user_guide/interaction.rst, after:

Interacting with the Bot
========================

After starting Errbot, you should add the bot to your buddy list if you haven't already.
You can now send commands directly to the bot, or issue commands in a chatroom that
the bot has also joined.

.. _builtin_help_function:

Accessing the built-in help function
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To get a list of all available commands, you can issue::

    !help full

If you just wish to know more about a specific command you can issue::

    !help command

Managing plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To get a list of public plugin repos you can issue::

    !repos

To install a plugin from this list, issue::

    !repos install <name of plugin>

You can always uninstall a plugin again with::

    !repos uninstall <plugin>

You will probably want to update your plugins periodically. This can be done with::

    !repos update all

A note about installing plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Please pay attention when you install a plugin, it may have additional dependencies.
If the plugin contains a `requirements.txt` file then Errbot will automatically check the requirements listed within and warn you when you are missing any.

Additionnaly, if you set :code:`AUTOINSTALL_DEPS` to :code:`True` in your **config.py**, Errbot will use pip to install any missing dependencies automatically.
If you have installed Err in a virtualenv, this will run the equivalent of :code:`pip install -r requirements.txt`.
If no virtualenv is detected, the equivalent of :code:`pip install --user -r requirements.txt` is used to ensure the package(s) is/are only installed for the user running Err.
